Cleanup porting guide API+Config (#317)
precice/precice.github.io: pages/docs/couple-your-code/couple-your-code-porting-v2-3.md

  - Where declaring a preCICE object, replace the `precice::SolverInterface` type with `precice::Participant`.
  - Where constructing a preCICE object, replace the `precice::SolverInterface( ... )` constructor with `precice::Participant( ... )`.
  - Consider renaming your objects from, e.g., `interface` to `participant`, to better reflect the purpose and to be consistent with the rest of the changes.
- Steering methods

>   - Replace `double preciceDt = initialize()` and `double preciceDt = advance(dt)` with `initialize()` and `advance(dt)`, as they don't have a return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Replace `double preciceDt = initialize()` and `double preciceDt = advance(dt)` with `initialize()` and `advance(dt)`, as they no longer have a return value.
```

  - Use `double preciceDt = getMaxTimeStepSize()`, where you need the max time step size or the relative end of the time window.
- Dimensions
  - Replace `getDimensions()` with `getMeshDimensions(meshName)`

>   - Replace custom logic to determine the dimensionality of data with `getDataDimensions(meshName, dataName)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Replace any custom logic to determine the dimensionality of data with `getDataDimensions(meshName, dataName)`
```

This is not common, is it?

We probably want to hint on the difference between "data dimensions" and "mesh dimensions", as we did not distinguish it so far.

> - Migrate to mesh and data ids to names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Migrate from using mesh and data ids to names
```

> - Migrate from using mesh and data ids to names

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Migrate from using mesh and data ids to directly using names
```

To convey the meaning that this is a significant simplification and not a change for the sake of change.

>   - Remove the now obsolete calls to `getMeshID()` and `getDataID()` and uses of types `MeshID` and `DataID`.

Reviewer: Which uses of types `MeshID` and `DataID` do you mean here? It is not immediately clear.

Author: I mean variable declarations and things like that.

Reviewer: Okay. Perhaps being more explicit in the wording would help, or also just saying *... which means data and mesh IDs are no longer used in the API.*

Author: ```suggestion
  - Remove the now obsolete calls to `getMeshID()` and `getDataID()`.
  - Remove uses of the now obsolete typedefs `MeshID` and `DataID`.
```

Like that?

Reviewer: Were they typedefs? Users (me) probably just saw them as ints..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Remove the now obsolete calls to `getMeshID()` and `getDataID()` and any related variables / user-defined types. 
```

  - Replace the use of mesh IDs with the mesh name.

>   - Replace the use of data IDs with both the mesh name and the data name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Replace the use of data IDs with the respective mesh and data names.
```

- Migrate connectivity information to the vertex-only API. All `setMeshX` methods take vertex IDs as input and return nothing.
  - Directly define face elements or cells of your coupling mesh available in your solver by passing their vectices to preCICE, which automatically handles edges of triangles etc. See [Mesh Connectivity](couple-your-code-defining-mesh-connectivity) for more information.
  - Rename `setMeshTriangleWithEdges` to `setMeshTriangle` and `setMeshQuadWithEdges` to `setMeshQuad`. The edge-based implementation was removed.
  - Use the new bulk functions to reduce sanitization overhead: `setMeshEdges`, `setMeshTriangles`, `setMeshQuads`, `setMeshTetrahedra`.
- Implicit coupling
  - Remove `precice::constants::actionReadIterationCheckpoint()` and `precice::constants::actionWriteIterationCheckpoint()`
  - Remove `markActionFulfilled()` of the above actions.

>   - Replace `isActionRequired()` of the above actions with `requiresReadingCheckpoint()` or `requiresWritingCheckpoint()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Replace `isActionRequired()` of the above actions with `requiresReadingCheckpoint()` or `requiresWritingCheckpoint()`.
    - Remove `markActionFulfilled()` of the above actions. It is now implied that a `requires*()` is directly executed/fulfilled. 
```

- Migrate data access
    - Replace the commands to read data: `readBlockVectorData`, `readVectorData`, `readBlockScalarData`, `readScalarData` with a single command `readData`.
    - Replace the commands to write data: `writeBlockVectorData`, `writeVectorData`, `writeBlockScalarData`, `writeScalarData` with a single command `writeData`.

>     - Replace the commands to write gradient data: `writeBlockVectorGradientData`, `writeVectorGradientData`, `writeBlockScalarGradientData`, `writeScalarGradientData` with a single command `writeGradientData`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Replace the commands to read data: `readBlockVectorData`, `readVectorData`, `readBlockScalarData`, `readScalarData` with the single command `readData`.
    - Replace the commands to write data: `writeBlockVectorData`, `writeVectorData`, `writeBlockScalarData`, `writeScalarData` with the single command `writeData`.
    - Replace the commands to write gradient data: `writeBlockVectorGradientData`, `writeVectorGradientData`, `writeBlockScalarGradientData`, `writeScalarGradientData` with the single command `writeGradientData`.
```

>     - The signature of `readData`, `writeData` and `writeGradientData` has changed from `const int*`, `const double*`, and `double*` to `span<const VertexID>`, `span<const double>`, and `span<double>`. The sizes of passed spans are checked by preCICE. spans can be constructed using a pointer and size, or by a container providing `.data()` and `.size()`. Examples for the latter are `std::vector`, `std:array`, and `Eigen::VectorXd`.

Reviewer 2: We don't clarify here whether we mean `std::span` or a `span` provided by preCICE.

Author: ```suggestion
    - The signature of `readData`, `writeData` and `writeGradientData` has changed from `const int*`, `const double*`, and `double*` to `precice::span<const VertexID>`, `precice::span<const double>`, and `span<double>`. The sizes of passed spans are checked by preCICE. spans can be constructed using a pointer and size, or by a contigous container. Examples for the latter are `std::vector`, `std:array`, `Eigen::VectorXd`, and also `std::span`.
```

>   - The signature of `readData`, `writeData` and `writeGradientData` has changed from `const int*`, `const double*`, and `double*` to `span<const VertexID>`, `span<const double>`, and `span<double>`. The sizes of passed spans are checked by preCICE. spans can be constructed using a pointer and size, or by a container providing `.data()` and `.size()`. Examples for the latter are `std::vector`, `std:array`, and `Eigen::VectorXd`.
>   - Replace the commands to read data: `readBlockVectorData`, `readVectorData`, `readBlockScalarData`, `readScalarData` with a single command `readData`.
>   - To simplify migration, use `getMaxTimeStepSize()` as relative read time for now and read up on time interpolation later.
>   - Replace the commands to write data: `writeBlockVectorData`, `writeVectorData`, `writeBlockScalarData`, `writeScalarData` with a single command `writeData`.
>   - Replace the commands to write gradient data: `writeBlockVectorGradientData`, `writeVectorGradientData`, `writeBlockScalarGradientData`, `writeScalarGradientData` with a single command `writeGradientData`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Replace the commands to read data: `readBlockVectorData`, `readVectorData`, `readBlockScalarData`, `readScalarData` with a single command `readData`.
    - Replace the commands to write data: `writeBlockVectorData`, `writeVectorData`, `writeBlockScalarData`, `writeScalarData` with a single command `writeData`.
    - Replace the commands to write gradient data: `writeBlockVectorGradientData`, `writeVectorGradientData`, `writeBlockScalarGradientData`, `writeScalarGradientData` with a single command `writeGradientData`.
    - The signature of `readData`, `writeData` and `writeGradientData` has changed from `const int*`, `const double*`, and `double*` to `span<const VertexID>`, `span<const double>`, and `span<double>`. The sizes of passed spans are checked by preCICE. spans can be constructed using a pointer and size, or by a container providing `.data()` and `.size()`. Examples for the latter are `std::vector`, `std:array`, and `Eigen::VectorXd`.
  - To simplify migration, use `getMaxTimeStepSize()` as relative read time for now and read up on time interpolation later.
```
Changing the order here to first put the replacement instructions and then the rest of the points. I think this is more intuitive.

>   - To simplify migration, use `getMaxTimeStepSize()` as relative read time for now and read up on time interpolation later.

Reviewer 2: Relative to what?
Add a link to the time interpolation section / page.

Author: ```suggestion
  - To simplify migration to `readData()`, use `getMaxTimeStepSize()` as relative read time for now to always read data at the end of the time window. Read up on [time interpolation](couple-your-code-waveform.html) once you finished the port.
```

- Migrate data initialization
  - Remove `precice::constants::actionWriteInitialData()`.
  - Remove `markActionFulfilled()` of write initial data.
  - Replace `isActionRequired()` of write initial data with `requiresInitialData()`.
  - Remove `initializeData()`. The function `initializeData()` has been merged into `ìnitialize()`.

>   - Move the data initalization before the call to `initialize()`. You have to initialize the data if `requiresInitialData()` returns `true`.

Reviewer 2: The "move the data initialization" needs to come first for the rest to make sense.

```suggestion
  - Move the data initalization before the call to `initialize()`. You have to initialize the data if `requiresInitialData()` returns `true`.
  - Remove `initializeData()`. The function `initializeData()` has been merged into `ìnitialize()`.
  - Remove `precice::constants::actionWriteInitialData()`.
  - Remove `markActionFulfilled()` of write initial data.
  - Replace `isActionRequired()` of write initial data with `requiresInitialData()`.
```

> - Renamed functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rename the functions:
```

>   - Replace `getMeshVerticesAndIDs` with `getMeshVertexIDsAndCoordinates`. Change the input argument meshID to meshName and swap the arguments.

Reviewer 2: > and swap the arguments

Do we maybe need to be more specific here?

Author: ```suggestion
  - Replace `getMeshVerticesAndIDs` with `getMeshVertexIDsAndCoordinates`. Change the input argument meshID to meshName and swap the arguments for IDs and coordinates.
```

  - Replace `isMeshConnectivityRequired` with `requiresMeshConnectivityFor`. Instead of the input argument `meshID`, pass the `meshName`.
  - Replace `isGradientDataRequired` with `requiresGradientDataFor`. Instead of the input argument `dataID`, pass the `meshName` and `dataName`.

> - Removed functionality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove the functionalities:
```

Author: ```suggestion
- Remove the following without a replacement:
```

  - Remove `mapWriteDataFrom()` and `mapReadDataTo()`.
  - Remove `hasMesh()` and `hasData()`.

>   - Remove `hasToEvaluateSurrogateModel()` and `hasToEvaluateFineModel()`.

Reviewer 2: I think we need an explanation also for these.

Author: ```suggestion
- Remove the following without a replacement:
  - Remove `mapWriteDataFrom()` and `mapReadDataTo()` as custom timings were removed.
  - Remove `hasMesh()` and `hasData()` as there is no real usecase for them. All errors are unrecoverable.
  - Remove `hasToEvaluateSurrogateModel()` and `hasToEvaluateFineModel()` as they were stubs of a long-removed feature.
```

>   - Remove `getMeshVertices()` and `getMeshVertexIDsFromPositions()`. This information is already known by the adapter.

Reviewer 2: Since this was not trivial in some cases, you can link to the respective examples page.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Remove `getMeshVertices()` and `getMeshVertexIDsFromPositions()`. This information is already known by the adapter. We docummented [strategies on how to handle this](couple-your-code-defining-mesh-connectivity.html) in adpters.
```

>   - Remove `isReadDataAvailable()` and `isWriteDataRequired()`. Due to time interpolation, reading and writing is now always possible.

Reviewer 2: Calling the methods was always possible also before, the key difference is the updated data:

```suggestion
  - Remove `isReadDataAvailable()` and `isWriteDataRequired()`. Due to time interpolation, reading and writing updated data is now possible at any time, not only at the end of a coupling window.
```

Author: ```suggestion
  - Remove `isReadDataAvailable()` and `isWriteDataRequired()`. Due to time interpolation, writing generates samples in time, and reading is always possible between the current time and the end of the current time window.
```

- The XML tag `<solver-interface>` was removed and all underlying functionality was moved to the `<precice-configuration>` tag. Remove the lines including `<solver-interface>` and `</solver-interface>`, and move any attributes (such as `experimental`) from the `solver-interface` to the `precice-configuration` tag. Move the `sync-mode` attribute to the new `<profiling>` tag (see below).
- The `dimensions` configuration is now defined per mesh. Move the `dimensions="2"` or `dimensions="3"` from the `<solver-interface>` tag to each `<mesh>` tag: `<mesh name="MeshOne" dimensions="3">`.
- Rename the `<m2n: ... />` attributes `from` -> `acceptor` and `to` -> `connector`.

> - Add `<profiling mode="all" />` after the `<log>` tag if you need full profiling data.

Reviewer 2: Trying to make this sound less like something one must/should do.
Maybe also link to the respective documentation page?
By the way, the "after the `<log>`" should not matter, right?

```suggestion
- You can now add `<profiling mode="all" />` after the `<log>` tag if you need full profiling data.
```

- Participants
  - Replace `<use-mesh provide="true" ... />` with `<provide-mesh ... />`, and `<use-mesh provide="false" ... />` with `<receive-mesh ... />`.

>   - Move and renamed the optional attribute `<read-data: ... waveform-order="1" />` to `<data:scalar/vector ... waveform-degree="1"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Move and rename the optional attribute `<read-data: ... waveform-order="1" />` to `<data:scalar/vector ... waveform-degree="1"`.
```

  - Replace `<export:vtk />` for parallel participants with `<export:vtu />` or `<export:vtp />`.
  - Replace mapping constraint `scaled-consistent` with `scaled-consistent-surface`.

>   - Remove all timings in the mapping configuration `<mapping: ... timing="initial/onadvance/ondemand" />`.

Reviewer 2: When does the mapping happen now?

Author: ```suggestion
  - Remove all timings in the mapping configuration `<mapping: ... timing="initial/onadvance/ondemand" />`. preCICE now fully controls the mapping.
```

  - Remove the preallocations in the mapping configuration `<mapping: ... preallocation="tree/compute/estimate/save/off" />`. We always use the superior `tree` method.
  - Replace all RBF related `<mapping:rbf-... />` tags. RBF mappings are now defined in terms of the applied solver (current options `<mapping:rbf-global-direct ...`, `<mapping:rbf-global-iterative` or `<mapping:rbf-pum-direct ...`) and the applied basis function as a subtag of the solver. Users should use the additionally added auto selection of an appropriate solver, which omits the solver specification, as follows:

      ```xml
      <mapping:rbf  ...>
        <basis-function:... />
      </mapping:rbf>
      ```

      Example:

>       preCICE version 2 rbf configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      preCICE version 2 RBF configuration:
```

      ```xml
      <mapping:compact-polynomial-c0 direction="read" from= ... support-radius="0.3" />
      ```

>       corresponding preCICE version 3 rbf configuration (using the recommended auto selection):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      corresponding preCICE version 3 RBF configuration (using the recommended auto selection):
```

      ```xml
      <mapping:rbf  direction="read" from= ...>
        <basis-function:compact-polynomial-c0 support-radius="0.3" />
      </mapping:rbf>
      ```

      A specific solver should only be configured if you want to force preCICE to use and stick to a certain solver, independent of your problem size and execution.

  - Rename `<mapping:rbf... use-qr-decomposition="true" />` to `<mapping:rbf-global-direct ... > <basis-function:... /> </mapping:rbf-global-direct>`.

>   - We dropped quite some functionality concerning [data actions](https://precice.org/configuration-action.html) as these were not used to the best of our knowledge and hard to maintain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - We dropped quite some functionality concerning [data actions](https://precice.org/configuration-action.html) as these were not used to the best of our knowledge and were hard to maintain:
```

    - Removed deprecated action timings `regular-prior`, `regular-post`, `on-exchange-prior`, and `on-exchange-post`.
    - Removed action timings `read-mapping-prior`, `write-mapping-prior`, and `on-time-window-complete-post`.
    - Removed `ComputeCurvatureAction` and `ScaleByDtAction` actions.
    - Removed callback functions `vertexCallback` and `postAction` from `PythonAction` interface.
    - Removed timewindowsize from the `performAction` signature of `PythonAction`. The new signature is `performAction(time, data)`
    - Using actions with multiple couping schemes and mixed time window sizes is not well defined!

- Coupling schemes
  - Remove `<extraplation-order value="..." />` in `<coupling-scheme>`. Contact us if you need this feature.

>   - Replace `<min-iteration-convergence-measure min-iterations="3" ... />` by `<min-iterations value="3"/>`. No convergence measures won't lead to an error and iterate until `max-iterations`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Replace `<min-iteration-convergence-measure min-iterations="3" ... />` by `<min-iterations value="3"/>`. No, convergence measures won't lead to an error and iterate until `max-iterations`.
```

Author: "No convergence measures" as in 

```suggestion
  - Replace `<min-iteration-convergence-measure min-iterations="3" ... />` by `<min-iterations value="3"/>`. Defining no convergence measures now iterates until `max-iterations`.
```

Reviewer: Okay, I would then formulate it in a different way: 

Not defining convergence measures leads to iterations run until `max-iterations` is reached.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Replace `<min-iteration-convergence-measure min-iterations="3" ... />` by `<min-iterations value="3"/>`. Not defining convergence measures leads to iterations until `max-iterations` is reached.
```

  - We removed the plain `Broyden` acceleration. You could use `IQN-IMVJ` instead, which is a [multi-vector Broyden variant](http://hdl.handle.net/2117/191193).

## Building preCICE

> Renamed CMake variables as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rename CMake configuration variables as follows:
```
